# H1 Tools and applications - Markdown & HTML

Course: **AT00BY10-3012 Ohjelmistojen ylläpito ja testaus**  
Assignment: **H1 Markdown HTML**  
Date: **20.1.2026**  
Author: **Kaisa Juhola**

---

## Description

This project is a course assignment demonstrating the use of Markdown for creating a structured, easy-to-read document and the conversion of that document into HTML.
The topic of the document is Lean philosophy, including its history, core principles, and key ideas.

The goal of the assignment is to:

- Create a readable Markdown document on a chosen topic
- Convert the Markdown document into an HTML document
- Practice basic documentation and formatting skills using Markdown and HTML

## Project Structure

```
.
├── images/                 # Folder for project images
│   └── Lean5.png
├── lean.html               # Converted HTML file
├── lean.md                 # Markdown document
└── README.md               :red_circle: You are here
```

## lean.md - Mardown document

The file **lean.md** is the main content of the project. The document deals with the emergence of Lean thinking and philosophy and is written in Finnish.
It is written using Markdown syntax and covers the following topics:

- Introduction to Lean thinking
- History of Lean and Toyota Production System (TPS)
- Core Lean philosophy
- Sources and references

The document demonstrates:

- Use of headings and subheadings
- Lists (ordered and unordered)
- Emphasis (**bold** and *italic*)
- Blockquotes
- Images
- Links and references

[Markdown syntax guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/)

## lean.html - HTML

The file lean.html is the HTML version of the Markdown document.
It has been generated by converting lean.md into HTML.

### Conversion method

The conversion was done using markdown-it, a Markdown parser for Node.js.

Steps:
```
npm install -g markdown-it
markdown-it lean.md -o lean.html
```

The resulting HTML file contains the same content and structure as the original Markdown document and can be viewed in any web browser.
